# automated-trolley-system
An autonomous trolley vehicle for smart shopping. 

Store managers are always interested in highly efficient systems to manage stocks and track items over the store chain in a productive way. Product placement and inventory management are major problems due to the absence of liaison between floor managers and real time intelligence gathering from the store. One such shortcoming is the large queues in front of the product checkout counters. The function of the trolley described in this paper is to endow the floor mangers with better knowledge and decision making abilities based on the historical purchase patterns and live customer tracking while providing the customers a hassle free shopping experience. The infrastructure for the trolley is an autonomous ground vehicle which screens the surroundings, while following and assisting the user by tracing his purchase. This data can be used for targeted advertising based on the products the user interacts with, thereby affecting the purchase decision of the user. The other feature of the cart is an automatic billing of purchased items implemented using circular polarized antenna based passive RFID tag reading. The cart ecosystem works by: i) Detecting a user by recognizing the facial features (SURF-Speed Up Robust Features* based face recognition). ii) Autonomously following the user while maintaining a certain distance and avoiding collisions with other entities on the shop floor thereby decreasing the physical labor of the user.iii) Scanning the products in the cart using the passive RFID tags attached to the items, for convenience billing and store inventory update. Various trolley based models have been developed over the past years but most of the systems are plagued by problems such as card based user authentication for customer check-in, billing queues and lack of advancement in the trolley. This paper reviews and compares previous trolley based models and focuses on the enhancements that this model brings over them. According to the literature survey no such holistic system was proposed over the past decade. Finally, there are some limitations with previous models that are stated in this paper, along with future research directions to resolve them. In the coming future, this idea has the potential to become one of the advanced frameworks which will make the life smarter and simpler for the users in traditional brick and mortar stores.
